very soon you will be in the ice birth
with me but I don't like the cold that's
cool yeah oh gosh stay with your breath
wh hop has defied logic time and time
again he's able to withstand extreme
cold and even ran to the top of Everest
in his underwear he's proven we're all
capable of pushing our minds and bodies
way past what was thought possible they
call me the ice man what is the purpose
of living happiness strength and health
you're rest is [__] but this Society
is sick and we cannot deal with stress
it drains us but if we listen to our
body we can change that through science
so what is the first step breathing
exercises it's about handling our
emotion and feel that we are on top of
it no matter what but we have never
learned in our schooling how to do it
next through the power of the mind we
learn to make our bad feelings disease
go away you were injected with eoli you
had no negative immune response you took
volunteers train them on your techniques
and when they were injected their
responses were similar to your own it's
all possible how do you do that first we
have
to whim was there ever a time where the
pain was even too much for you my wife
took her own
life
and that led to depression and I was not
able to do do
[Music]
anything there's so many people that are
going through different forms of grief
what would you say to those people the
only way to break that
is we've just hit 6 million subscribers
on the dver co um so me and my team
would like to do something we've never
done before as little thank you and
we're calling it The di of Co subscriber
raffle and here is how it works every
episode this month we're going to pick
three current subscribers at random and
we'll send one of you a 1,000 value
one of you tickets to come and watch the
D behind the scenes live with our team
and one of you will have a 10-minute
phone call with me to discuss whatever
you want to talk about if you're a
subscriber you're in the raffle thank
you from the bottom of my heart for
allowing me to do something that me and
my team love doing so much it is the
greatest honor of my lifetime and I hope
it I hope it continues uh off into the
Future Let's get to the
[Music]
episode whm yes what is your
mission my mission is to bring uh love
and power very simple but then through
signs so there is no speculation about
it they in all the songs you hear love
is the greatest power and all that you
know but we should be able to feel it
and because we could not feel that
anymore to be uh uh too consumed through
consumerism
through uh everyday very hectic
stressful lives we get confused in it
all we are depleted in our energy our
energy is being drained through a system
that is an inally being divided in its
wealth and therefore people are not able
uh to use their energy to bring up uh
the the right values back in the family
which is patience which is empathy
creativity uh
love composed by happiness strength and
health so because there is confusion in
that area that's why uh I I thought hey
I'm going to start somewhere here and
now I'm going to change the world and I
see the wars I see unhappiness I see
depression I see pollution I see abuse I
see uh all that and people think that is
normal and we have to abide to those uh
realities and I think no it's sick and
what I'm going to do about it I'm I'm
going to start looking searching inside
because I I I think every uh mother in
the world should be able to bring
happiness strength and health to their
children and keep it there so that's my
mission to bring it and because nobody's
listening to a person like me saying
that from the roof we got love is the
power and all that that's why I go
through science but first I went into
the
cold and the cold I met because
intuitively I felt hey the cold is able
to bring down my thinking what is it
about the nature of society when you
look out on Society at the moment that
makes you sad or concerned what is it
about the way we live way we've built
this thing called Society so a society
is a very
complex uh uh
opportunistic
uh way uh through time nobody is able to
trace down where the problems are how it
has been Arisen it's too complex too
confused now and there I I I say hey
okay this look at The Establishment is
this perfect is this paradise Noh is
nothing wrong with our knowledge
understanding and intelligence but the
way we use it we have to change our
Consciousness and our Consciousness is
our way to perceive perceive is what we
see and what we are able to deal with
and we cannot deal with the stress
coming in our lives it consumes us it
drains us and there we are and and look
what we can do we can go to the Moon we
can go to Mars we can build Bridges we
can make create AI all those things but
we cannot create happiness strength and
health we got to reset so let's
stop massively in the world and Elevate
our Consciousness to being good to each
other not to be competitive if I if I'm
an individual listening to this and I
follow your methods what can you promise
me will be the outcome on my daytoday
life a lot more energy that's number one
two you will feel just
aive what is the purpose of living it's
life to love life as it is pure no
thoughts no confusion it's not there
just feel alive when you uh rise from
the bed you feel
okay this is a new
day what I'm going to do I'm going to
change the world today because I feel so
good and even though I'm not fully on
right now I know it's coming and I want
it I want it so much and you know what
it's called
purpose and that purpose I'm I'm living
it and that purpose is stronger than my
thinking and this Society is not driven
to fulfill each and everyone's purpose
it's to uh have the the the society
maintained the system maintained
controlled by a a couple of people all
the energy for what where is the
happiness where is the strength where is
the health every day when I live my
purpose and and I want to change the
world I want to bring love and power and
I'm doing
with mathematical Precision with the
mission impossible things they I found
which I tested in uh scientific uh
comparative studies showing that
suddenly we have so much more control
instead of being controlled by the
system oppressing our purpose Our Lives
energy and to connect with that purpose
it's like love when you feel love for
your woman for your love your sex this
this you you don't think that is that
power and that power you should be able
to live and to feel for life itself
every day but we are blocked too much
going into the cold brings you out of
this thinking
brain it brings you directly into the
deepest part of the brain because you
are doing it going into the called then
it it needs to be switched on the
deepest part of the brain survival part
the brain stem and uh to battle the
danger of the cold but it's there once
it's there and you are doing it you are
connecting is that pardon what you're
saying that the way that we live our
lives is a little bit too comfortable so
we're not reaching those sort of deeper
levels of our of our brain we're kind of
and we are optimizing discomfort out of
our lives in every chance we get
you from every you know I got here today
in a nice warm car I arrived in a nice
warm building I had a nice warm shower
oh very soon you will be in the ice bath
with
me it's it's going to be nice you know
it's going to be nice but that that that
the the difference is we choose if we go
to the cult and the cold will not come
to us we tackle the problem before it
arises within us with the cult which is
a very uh negative aggressive power
inflicted upon our bodies it's an impact
when you say if we go to the cold before
the cold comes to us is that a metaphor
for life are you yes okay you mean we go
we put ourselves in discomfort and if we
don't then our lives will be met with
discomfort in other way yes and then we
are not prepared yeah right and that
and a lot of people are maybe okay with
this in this system but uh so many more
people are not okay with this and for
those we stand up we who have the wealth
of being and feeling okay great that's
wealth we should be able to stand up for
those who cannot whim when did this
start when did this start for you
because a lot of people that I meet on
this show you know their early Journeys
or the sort of pivotal moments in their
lives can be traced back to maybe when
they were 12 or 13 but your journey
starts even earlier the first Domino
that fell seems to fall when your mother
was giving birth to you oh yes
subconsciously it started at my birth my
mother told me I'm one of the twins
unexpected back then we had no Echo
graphics and all these tools so they
didn't know that there was another twin
baby there exactly and so I was almost
uh born too late they discovered me
almost too late
and uh so I came out while they were
pushing uh the bat with my mother to the
operation room in the in in the hallway
like purple because almost suffocated
coming out in the cold of the hall very
traumatized it started over there it
started with a trauma and I let me tell
you I was I became a Seeker because of
that trauma people become Seekers if
they have deep trauma
they always will seek uh compensation
always try to seek relief in one way or
in another not directly to the trauma
but indirectly bypassing and they don't
know it influences directly deeply your
behavior in life just want to make sure
I'm super clear on this your mother had
two identical twin boys and the doctor's
own only knew that one baby was there so
when they finished delivering um your
brother your identical twin brother they
were moving on with the procedure and
then at the last minute while they were
in the hallway they discovered there was
another baby in there and that other
baby yourself was at risk and from that
whole sort of traumatic experience you
feel that that sort of embodied a trauma
which you've which turned you into a
Seeker looking for answers on the
universe rejecting the conventional
thinking and that takes us all the way
through this sort of um very curious
childhood up to the point you describe
at 17 years old where you're stood in
Amsterdam by a very very cold lake and
you feel cold to jump into that Lake yes
yes uh cold and C there are no words to
describe it because you are led by
intuition you are led by a way the the
body is able to solve whatever is inside
because you cannot relate by thinking
what is going on because I was a baby
back then but it always blocked me it
made me a seeker and uh at that moment
when I went in I just follow to
intuition it's a feeling and there I
felt this is it this is it what I've
always been trying to find as a Seeker
my intuition had led me to ER uh go into
that water to meet my trauma and that is
activating a
innate capacity of ours to deal and to
process whatever is going on in the
deepest of the brain in the deepest
thought up uh tissue where is trauma uh
present which we haven't learned how to
access that first time you got in the
cold
water yeah did you react like I react
when I get in the cold water now did you
were you h no absolutely not I was
surprising and you will go with me later
and you will not go the way you just
expressed okay we will go like you will
smile beautifully like you do right now
yeah and go with me in there is a moment
that you will feel a little bit
of but I'm there we are there you're my
brother you you I'm your uncle I'm your
family I want you to feel good I I want
you I I I I'm here to make you strong
strong strong it it it means to stay in
the eye of the hurricane when it is when
the stress is most when you first got
into the cold water you said it seemed
to answer a lot of your spiritual
questions yeah oh yeah all what what
spiritual questions did getting in the
Cold War to that first time answer all
what all what has been propagated by all
the religions all the Asic disciplines
and doctrines that Nirvana and
Enlightenment key
pra uh whatever they call it uh in name
uh that that is just our
mind let's feel strong let's be strong
let's be healthy let's be happy just
unconditionally that's what I felt at
that moment this is it and it was not
words that came to me it was a pure
opening of my feeling being un corrupted
by
thinking for many many years you lived
as a squatter was it from 17 to sort of
20 sort of mid 20s that you lived as a
squatter 0s you were you best time of my
life having no money whatsoever I was in
society living outside of society
outside I had no money I lived off the
scraps of the uh the
marketplace and I loved it was a party
time was Feast every day with all these
other people who are free thinkers do
don't think a time have a have a
sabatical a a a sabatical of this way
the system maintains itself through
Paradigm through a certain way of
thinking if you just leave it at time
you start to think uh thoughts and
emotions are able to emerge without
without this helmet on this heavy helmet
which is interrupting your flow your
being your expression and then you you
cannot trust that expression you are
lost you're getting lost of who who you
are there I was able to
freethink without even thinking about it
I played the guitar and the
hallways
uh I did yoga all these postes in the in
the courtyards
naked
and in the winter time I became so
strong if you only let the life force
Express itself you become so strong what
is the life force for anybody that
doesn't know anybody has it yeah like
here and right now if I like I was
talking be before we entered into this
podcast 76 years old this man was and he
was suffering uffing from Li limes
disease and he wanted to climb to
kilamanjaro in record time without
having any experience in in climbing 76
years old limes disease suffering with
that condition doing a mountain which
normally is done between five and nine
days fully dressed because up there at
6,000 m is really cold and there is less
than half the oxygen so the cold comes
even harder in and there I saw life
force uh his life force was so
determined to climb with me an
impossible physiologically impossible
task because normally between 5 to n
days he did it a 31 hours 76 years old
what what else is that than a life force
you never expected it to be just to take
on the challenge he had a deeper feeling
within himself I don't know what I got
to do but this guy is saying he wants to
climb to Kilimanjaro past the
physiological limits according to
science and it I feel I feel something
that is your life force talking to you
which wants to free itself he was
suffering from limes disease he was in a
system always abiding to everything and
suddenly with an autoimmune disorder he
could not control at all
and and there he was so he he felt the
same thing as I felt when I was 17 going
into the CT he came with me and he
climbed to kilaru in 31 hours not 5 to n
days 31 hours
so that is the life force our life force
is capable of so much more than we are
used to why don't we know that why don't
we believe that why don't we live our
lives with the you know the the opinion
that we can climb the mountain sure
because we are let to believe we have to
serve into systems that are not
necessarily serving our
soul and they so massively
psychologically overwhelming the system
the schooling system Etc it's so
overwhelming that we have no way to
escape from this narrowing Consciousness
where we got in we think careers make us
happy cars make us happy money makes us
happy Fame and name and all makes us
happy I was the happiest guy when I was
in the squat having nothing you were you
were effectively homeless living just
outside yeah yeah yeah a squat is a
place where you have a uh you have
electricity and that's it and you got to
pay for the the heater so you had to
find find ways to uh uh pay say um what
is it £70 a month and you were living
with lots of people in yeah when when
you were squatting yeah wow was an
amazing I mean we don't need so much but
it has been propagated that we need a
house everybody needs a
mortgage and you got to serve that
mortgage you got to go to 9 to5 and we
become slaves and slaves of a system
that is
in the end creating quite some stress
and we are only able to survive not to
express ourselves creatively as who we
are and what we are for real what's a
realistic alternative whim I lived in
that Society first I lived outside
through living in a squat that was
enough for me to have my own identity
connected in my thinking my mind and uh
then I went into society it was a
horrible time time because suddenly I
had to live in a flat with the kids and
my wife deteriorated mentally and she
took her own life in 95 and she jumped
from eight stories down that that that
was
the the life I was in and the and
Society just go keeps on going like a
train it it has no emotion it has no
feeling wh on that you're 22 years old
you're you fall in love yes with a woman
you describe as the love of your life oh
that's her yes o oh look at
this oh yeah
sweetheart amazing Soul very expressive
very talkative to everybody very open
and uh and then into the shadows of her
own mind and dysfunctioning of brain
functioning and uh that led to uh her
depression and then becoming Manic and
then
schizophrenia then uh worse got worse
and worse and worse we were 15 years
together you met her in that squat house
in the squat house yes yeah amazing yeah
so innocent all very innocent and uh uh
I called her a butterfly Mariposa in
Spanish and uh butterfly because she was
everywhere a very light
being did I fell in love or Rose in love
I think the last
one only the the way her mind got
Disturbed through this yeah is it
Society is it the pressure is it a
career is it what is it a demand because
this was a light a being of light you
you met her in that squatter house you
had two children together yes in the
squat and perfectly okay and great and
great we yeah beautiful the those
children are right now working with me
we got an international worldwide
company yeah when did you realize that
her mental health was
deteriorating yeah probably too late uh
uh uh it was a a a a decreasing kind of
uh uh process in her where she was
losing the control and uh uh I had no
real means to take care of that she went
back uh to uh pmon she was Spanish from
origin and uh she was there with her
family she would have been for months on
end with her family and then come back
and being mother for two days
and then suddenly collapse and being bad
and being very down again and uh yeah
like a burden burdensome but we loved
her of
course we are trying to
survive where and uh only after the uh
the fourth child you wanted another CH
but I said no you have to become better
you have to become healthy and and she
said to you you are a bastard that was
one month before she took her own life
see uh she kissed her I was working as a
mountain guide in the Pines to get some
money and I also loved it I love nature
but then uh uh yeah she kissed her uh
the kids could
bu before uh jumping down or letting go
from 8
uh story she jumped off an eighth story
building yes I mean it almost takes a
lot of courage to do that too you must
be very Des desperate if you do a thing
like that and that is something un
overcomable the part of me when I was 12
the world is sick depressed the darkness
the wars the pollution Etc all that I'm
going to do something about it at that
moment I could not I was not able to do
anything so it it turned into a defeat
it turned into being me hopeless it
turned me into being depressed but I had
no time to be depressed I had to take
care of four
children on your own on my own with
almost no
money so uh that's that's a actually
where the cult came in not like a
negative power power it the cold is
stronger than your mind it than your
thinking it makes you the depth of your
brain at work and the depth of your
brain is the place the pharmacy it's the
pharmacy the Healer of our uh being
which we disconnected from so much
because we go we go for pills medicines
or go to doctor if something happens to
us we don't go to ourselves I can't
imagine the pain I can't imagine the
pain of you know having the love of my
life um a deteriorate um have four kids
with me but then take her own
life
grief oh yes the grief had no space yes
the agonizing thinking all day long has
its way to uh to burden a person a me
and uh uh uh yeah the only way to break
that was going into uh icy
water uh that was yeah I mean at that
moment you're just
surviving and that gives you a little
little opening of this agonizing
thinking this it's painful it's a a and
at that moment you are so overwhelmed by
all that that you
now I can talk about it but back then I
was in the middle of it do you remember
where you were where you were when you
got that phone
call yes
uh exactly and U I was doing groups of
people uh in the in the mountains so
back then you had these phone booths
yeah in on the camping on the camping
where we uh slept and uh with the group
and uh there I got uh this phone call uh
the of her brother calling me and uh
yeah so it is uh not only shocking you
don't know what to
say you cannot even
cry the grief comes later the thinking
about it the being able to contemplate
about it and have feelings about it
comes only later I cried when I was with
her
father with with her father over her
dead body then we cried together that
then you can relate You Can Let Go it
happens you're not thinking about it it
happens so that's the way
it evolves and then but in the back of
my head was was of course my four
children it took a burden on us it took
a burden on an
inexplicable burden
it changed us it traumatized Us in the
depth and that made us uh separate at a
certain
moment later on in life now we are all
together and it's amazing the chemistry
is better than ever before and uh she
her the mother she is like in a an angel
now she's looking over our shoulders and
we talk about it we say she yeah she
that it is going so well with us is
because she is that back she she is with
us we feel it when you had that
conversation with your four children
that their mother was gone they were
between seven and 12 years old yes how
how do how do you have a conversation
with a seven-year-old or or a 12year old
about their mother not being here
anymore exactly that that way I said she
is she is
gone her body is gone she she I didn't
say she was
dead she is not no longer with us that's
what I
said and they got it we are here we are
together we're going to we're going to
find life with us mommy is gone yet also
she is
here and
worked it worked I mean we went on did
they ask
questions of course of course many
questions but uh the end uh the the the
questions uh were not as strong as our
being
during in life being together uh it's
there where I found the cold to give me
all the energy to create a good
atmosphere to at home the nest
warmth
playfulness being there light not
heavy what is that first step to because
there's so many people that are going
through different forms of grief or they
have that trauma that you've describe
that goes back a long way if they're
listening to this now and they've
stumbled this far into the conversation
and they're thinking I'm so far away
from that whim I'm So Far Away I've got
my shirt and tie on I've got I'm in the
city I I know I'm unhappy I can feel it
in my bones but I know no other way what
is the first step absolutely the
breathing
exercises these breathing exercises in
2014 were capable to show just like
scientifically uh hormonally uh looking
at the nervous system the depth
uh which we entered with these breathing
exercises in this comparative study
showed that we were able to tap into the
autonomic nervous system and innate
immune system which was considered to be
impossible in signs and now it is there
it's not only the autonomic nervous
system and the innate immune system it's
also the ability naturally to solve what
is deeply
stored up in our tissue which could not
be processed in the moment when it
happened trauma whim I've got some of
those studies in front of me I read
through all of them um ahead of our
conversation and they are quite frankly
um remarkable they're quite frankly
remarkable they are uh peer-reviewed
studies that have been published um went
through very sort of scientifically
rigorous processes to make sure that
they were valid and in these studies we
see breakthroughs that I think the past
people thought were impossible but if we
just focus in then on that breathing
because you you described that as the
first step if I have never breathed in
my life I've never done it I've never
heard about it I'm a I'm skeptical to it
I think breathing is just something we
don't think about
um what do you mean by breathing and
what kind of breathing and can you
explain to me like I'm an idiot what
it's doing
yeah what it is doing for example I'm uh
now busy with cardiologists and they saw
in heart films that if you stop
breathing after exhalation for one and a
half minute five times more blood flows
into the brain and to the heart this
what has never been shown and now it has
been shown through these breathing
techniques I mean this really goes so
deep we are able to make uh these uh
through these breathing techniques uh
change our blood's chemistry uh bring up
the pH levels way up by which the
breathing trigger is not happening
because it's depending on the CO2 level
in our blood if we breathe
like 30 times like this you become a
little bit woie a little bit dizzy why
because the CO2 levels go way
down you blow it off carbon dioxide have
we forgotten how to to breathe like that
is that is oh yes is that the natural
way of breathing no not exactly okay
what what what is exactly is that we uh
have forgotten to feel Deep
Emotions uh to be uh in connection with
danger danger is a deep
emotion or the
cold it's it's deep we avoid these
emotions but they are we are built to
receive it to express it and uh with
that comes alive the deeper mechanisms
in our body and be if that longterm is
not exercise
those deeper mechanisms and among that
is not only the emotion it's also the
immune system it becomes weaker we
become more
flid we become insensitive look at the
insensitivity in our society Gaza is
happening yeah protest is we should stop
that [__] we should stop those Wars cuz
kids little kids are here jeopardized
and we cannot even feel it anymore you
know that this insensitivity in US is a
is a plague is a plague because we serve
a system that runs well on people being
obedient and being flaccid not really
sensitive because if you are really
sensitive you don't go to a to a slave
job every every day and come back
stressed and the other day you do it
again and again again again what we
should do within our eles is learning
how to connect into the depth and this
is what I give through the C we bring
these deeper emotions alive and then you
will not abide to that what makes you
weak to that what kills your purpose we
got to stand up as humanity and more
more now than ever and here we are and
uh whim how do you do that very simple
do this breathing techniques do it on
your
bed on a sofa or very controlled because
you will go past your conditioned mind
and body the the shallow breathing we do
we say that is breathing that's not
breathing that is automatic reflex of
your body doing
something and there it is now you take
over consciously you start to breathe
deeper you go past these
patterns depicted by a conditioned body
and that conditioning is only serving
the system but not necessarily you I
want you to take over the steer wheel I
want you to be conscious and then go
with that conscious into deeper
breathing break the patterns of your
conditioning and suddenly uh your uh
deeper traumas your deeper feelings are
able to come to the surface is being
stored up being stashed away forever and
and that is what is happening in the
first session we
do I I can promise any any person uh who
is doing it will encounter a such a
tremendous experience of himself from
the depth coming to the surface and
that's only the depth coming to the
servant that's all and it's beautiful
I'm so intrigued as to as to how that
happens so CU I've had lots of friends
that
are very um focused on breathing using
your techniques obviously I told you
before we started recording my partner
runs a breath work studio called barley
breath work where she has committed her
life to using the breath to heal people
but I I'd like someone to explain to me
you know how if I take hold of the
steering wheel and I go past those sort
of unconscious breathing um
patterns why does that unlock trauma
because when I go to my when I um have
been to my partner's breath work
sessions when they end people are
talking about very deep forms of trauma
that they've suddenly encountered and
I'm wondering how is the breath doing
that how is the breath unlocking that
stuff what is where is it hidden you
know I don't understand the breaths
connection to our trauma so traumas are
a stored Up chemistry it's unprocessed
it's when a experience happens and you
cannot deal with it you can't process it
you don't understand it's being stashed
away and it becomes biochemical stored
up
uh stored up capacity of the body is
simply there in our deeper tissue but
our conditioned mind and body is not
able to get into that depth just by
thinking yes but that we are thinking
too much and uh we know something is
wrong inside but we cannot connect with
that now if we change the patterns we
normally go into with our breathing and
thinking which goes paed which controls
our
heart it's conditioning H if we are into
that conditioning and we start simply
and that makes it so beautiful that it
is so simple and uh H how it uh uh then
uh suddenly is able to get into this Tau
to regulate our mood in the depth is by
a cab cannaboid receptors the last study
we did is a landmark study Landmark
study done by Professor DBU divar in
Detroit and it shows that the
cannabinoid
receptors are a part of the Salient
Network the Salient network is that what
makes all the networks in the brain work
together and uh with that we get a hold
of H areas we normally don't have
connection to so what the breathing does
in the depth is activating the
connectors in the body called
cannabinoid receptors by which uh deeper
uh realities of our uh physiology uh
open up and that is a natural thing to
happen when we are in peace no longer in
the trauma in the accident no now we are
in peace now we should be able to work
out what has been stored up that is a
natural capacity of ours to do that but
we have never learned in our society in
our schooling how to do it and not even
in Psychiatry they give you pills and
they give you medicines that's makes a
lot of money but it doesn't solve the
problem people become catatonic people
become my wife too after treatment in
Psychiatry the first wife she became her
eyes like like a zombie yeah a zombie
this is a blasphemy this is scandalous
in Psychiatry that they keep on doing
that now I get a lot of
psychiatrists uh a cognitive
psychologists about cognitive therapist
and they say when the cognitive
therapies have no solution anymore we do
breathing and it it just brings solution
so it is simple so effective but it
doesn't make
money it it makes people
understand I feel so much better how is
that
possible and that that's simply that how
it works
we just did The Landmark study with the
compelling findings that we actually
found
interception interceptive Focus suddenly
being able to regulate our mood emotion
much better so we are able to listen if
we listen to our body and we feel bad we
can change that we uh we found now the
key how to do that first of all you do
the breathing
called of course called training not too
much never too much just
relax we are very capable to even take
like Patrice Eva who was completely
hating it because of his when he was
young he got it as a punishment you have
to take it nice and good and open up to
the Natural capacity to take it on he
will was the best absolute best taken on
icy water for 16 minutes he was in and
he wanted to stay there in and BBC was
like oh no this is too dangerous please
come out yeah yeah you have no you have
to come out patri okay okay and he was
just walking out and you know what I
felt his skin he was not even called so
just for context is that power that's
that power it's so simple for people
that don't know Patrice is a good friend
of mine Patrice ever he's been on this
podcast before and um he he told me that
whims techniques had really changed his
life especially his relationship with
cold water he was like me he told
himself that because of his I don't know
his race where he came from his DNA he
wasn't able to spend time in cold water
but I think what he discovered through
whim was that that was actually a trauma
because when he was younger his father
used cold water as a punishment so he
had this trauma with cold water and
after doing your uh program and spending
time with you he was the very very best
at staying in cold water and when I was
with him recently was amazing he he
jumped in that cold water without
flinching you know and he told me that
throughout his entire Manchester United
playing career he was always the one
that never got into the um the the cold
recovery plunge pools at Manchester
United after the game he always avoided
it and he just wishes he wishes that he
knew what he knows now about the power
of cold water because then he would have
been able to recover better as a as a
player that's that's what he told me I
have the I have the study here in front
of me that you described there I think
it's the um the Michigan brain over body
study that was the first study and then
came a second
study uh the first study I was compared
to
74 test subjects per people and they
were all going into the uh having a a
profusion vest what is been used in when
firefighters go into the work they have
a cold water going through a perfusion
vest full of tubes so it's a vest where
they pump cold water yes okay so they
are able to endure the heat of the fire
better okay to fight the fire so they
took that into uh body scans fmri scans
and uh pump cold water into these vests
while the people were
Motionless In These
FM and so every time when the cold water
was pumped in uh the body's uh uh skin
temperature would go
down and uh and then warmed up
again a skin temperature going up and
that correlates in the brain with
stress and uh uh uh and those stress
mechanisms then when the cold is being
pumped in is very clearly seen on the
monitor of these people who connected
the people with
electrodes you could see it on the
monitor the way the brain was being
activated oh these are the stress
mechanisms and now is the warmth oh now
is the uh the areas of well-being of the
brain H activated insula and the and the
and the per aqueductal
gray whatever the names I I call it a
the the positive and the negative
registration of uh of stress and or
well-being yeah those parts and they
nobody could change that what if we
could make the feeling well part of the
brain at work when the stress comes in
so what if we could feel choose to feel
good when stress comes ah this was never
been shown in psychiatry
so they had this
experimental uh
module there and then uh nobody could
make a different brain scan possible
when stress comes in through the cold
being pumped in to the skin then stress
part of the brain is activated nobody
could make that not go uh activated not
go
away and I could I didn't feel the cult
when it came in because I warmed up my
body willfully nobody believed that was
possible um until until you did it I
want to just recount that the first
study which was done and published in
2018 it was carried out at Wayne State
University in Michigan and scientists
looked at the way that the body and the
Brain reacted to changes in temperature
whenever anyone feels the cold um they
typically have a auto automatic bodily
response um but also you can see that
that response in the brain the narrowing
of blood vessels to protect organs uh
increased energy and and pain signals so
to test whether you could control that
um those responses to the cold
scientists created a full body suit in
which they would pump cold or warm water
into your into your body on normal test
subjects their skin temperature would
rise and fall with the change in water
temperature which is what you'd expect
when whim underwent the experiment
without his breathing techniques his
skin temperature changes were very
similar to the normal people however
when he used the breathing and
meditation techniques he kept a
sustained skin temperature of 34° over
25 minutes which was never thought to be
humanly possible when he was put in a
pet scan to see what was happening
inside his body scientists saw that the
intercostal muscles which is the muscles
between your ribs were burning a lot of
glucose and releasing heat into your
body which was keeping your body warm
when looking at whims brain scientists
saw that it didn't have the same
unconscious reaction to the cold as
normal people's brains did his breathing
technique engaged the sympathetic
nervous system releasing adrenaline and
triggered the area of the brain stem
which is that um area you describing
before aqueductal gry hemisphere that
perceives pain the triggering of the
brain stem released cannaboids and
opioids and these chemicals gave a sense
of well-being and reduced anxiety and
this study showed that whim had control
over the autonomous nervous um
autonomous systems of the brain and the
brain's automatic responses to the cold
the results of this study have been uh
tremendous and they have proven the
massive potential implications for the
IM immune system disorders like diabetes
Ms and arthritis in Psychiatry so it the
TDR of that is the study really proved
that the stress we encounter throughout
our lives we do have control over it we
have control over the impact it has on
our physiological
systems but also you know our brain and
how we experience it because you were
able to not experience cold yes the pain
of cold the stress of c and it was not
about the cold it was about how to deal
with stress stress can come in many ways
emotionally physically spiritually it
can come in many ways in the end it is
biochemical stress it it turns into
biochemistry neurotoxins Etc it
accumulates it gets in the body
creates blockages it it drains and you
don't know what to do with it and and
then medicines come in and pills and it
only deteriorates it it gets worse and
and that besides of the side effects
thing is I used the cult back when I was
with my wife who died to get my
emotional Agony out of the
way and uh it was the doorway to open up
my healing my spiritual healing of me as
a puppy of my children just to be happy
with them and to provide energy and
well-being without this
traumatizing Darkness around us so I
found it through the cult yet it is not
about the cold it's about that I
regained Mastery over my to bring back
my emotion
uninterrupted cuz we should be able to
guide our emotional state of being
anytime when we feel bad naturally
naturally and that that that is what
this shows and now upon this study they
did another study and then they saw even
without me now people can do
this and that's what I wanted that is
the study Landmark study being done last
January published so that's TW 24 and uh
six years past the covid and all H and
now they see compelling evidence to keep
on and to make these studies much bigger
because their potential is that we found
to key called intercep
interception to be so strong
that we are able to control our
emotional
well-being throughout whatever stress
there is but it's not just our emotional
well-being it's also our immune system
of course that goes also with it I isn't
a a healthy person a happy person kind
of you know isn't it
interrelated I want to just highlight
this because this for me when I heard
this many years ago I thought this was
uh I thought this couldn't possibly be
true
but in
2010 um when you were 51 years old you
took part in a study at Rand bound
University Medical Center in the
Netherlands where you were injected with
a a bacterial toxin a dead straight of
ecoli in previous studies of a 100
healthy people they responded to that
injection with a flu like response which
is what you'd expect you'd get the flu
if you were injected with that however
when when you were injected with that uh
bacterial toxin
uh you had no negative immune response
apart from a minor
headache your but blood results also
showed the release of cortisol
adrenaline and the messenger messenger
chemical il10 which is an
anti-inflammatory pro protein all of
which helped you to fight off that
bacteria uh however to prove that this
wasn't just you being some superhuman
scientists gathered 30 male volunteers
12 were put into a control Group which
meant that they were just normal and 18
were trained by you uh you took 18 of
them to Poland for 4 days to train them
on meditation cold exposure annual
breathing techniques and when they were
injected with the um bacterial toxin uh
the dead strain of ecoli the trained
group had a significantly less immune
response recovered quicker and their
bodily responses were similar to your
own this was a major scientific
breakthrough and it showed people could
voluntarily control
their automatic nervous system and
immune
response which was previously thought to
be impossible and that's the viewer the
viewer is looking at this now that's you
and and that's where we want to reach
out to you have the uh uh absolute
capacity to rule so much better within
your own body and I'm I'm I'm doing the
science I'm following the science and I
think it's scandalous of the scientific
Community not to have Dove upon this why
don't we is it because it's difficult no
it's not difficult it's not now like I
don't know over the 100 million people
are doing this but through the
scientific World which is uh also in the
beginning of this conversation it's
corrupted they get funding from the
pharmaceutical industry and that's all
good Etc I'm not messing with them uh
but natural ways that could equalize the
results of medicines without side
effects should at least have a thorough
examination by the scientific uh Elite
world can I just I want to make sure I'm
super clear on what's going on here and
what to achieve these phenomenal results
um by by having a sort of doing some of
these techniques that help us to unlock
the the stress and the trauma that's
deep in our body and that enable us to
create a better response with
stress we're able to guard off the
stress which means we're able to protect
our well-being which m means that we're
able to fend off disease because we all
know that when we're highly stressed our
immune system Falls and we get sick I
know in my own life whenever I'm really
stressed is the only time that I'll ever
get a cold or or anything like that is
that is that the simple way of
describing what's going on here yeah yes
yes we have this innate capacity to
heighten our buffer zone uh toward uh
stress by which stress is not able to do
its damage and is part of the problem
with the modern way of living that we've
chosen
medication as the answer too often and
we've also made our lives as stress free
as we possibly can absolutely absolutely
there is no doubt about it and it is a
dead end street by the way and the whole
Health Care system is B burdened by the
the finances and all it's it's going to
collapse anyway if it keeps on going but
because it is a money-making uh way uh
that's why they will keep on going until
it
collapses I had professor friedr in Mar
thebook on the line uh talking
about he said to me whim the
democracy the Democracy as we know it
actually is uh at Peril in danger why
because the people are becoming so
weak and we the democracy is only uh
composed by the strength of the people
once we get all weaker and a a system
which is corrupt just to uh make money a
healthy economy on
people that wants to stay that way makes
the people weaker and weaker by which
the Democracy will know its ant will
collapse and I said hey that weakness in
the Democracy in people I can make it go
away in one
week simply sense talking to this
professor and he he agreed because he
saw it he saw it in the people he knew
it he he knew it from anecdotal evidence
he knew it from his family taking up
these crazy whm Hof techniques going
into call Wim Hof whatever is a brand
name I'm a simple guy I know what it is
to have nothing at all to be a nobody
and now I got a name and fame and all
that I don't care it's okay if I got to
stand up I will and I will say hey here
I am whim Hof the Iceman and I will
change the world how through making you
better than who you think you could be
and that is through the Wim Hof method
and fasting is good
too to deprive yourself in different
ways hor matically that is
self-inflicted acute stressful
exercise but do it consciously if you
don't go to the cult the cult will come
to you you if you don't go to dist
stress the stress will come to you cuz
we are built to endure we are built we
got these capacities so if we go into
the cult you will see that there your
whole body is able to handle stress so
much better and when you know you are
going into a stressful uh event of any
kind you know willfully to connect
yourself make your body from the inside
so strong that the stress out there is
no problem there's three elements to
this whim Hoff method there's three
pillars to the method the first is that
conscious breathing so let's just make
sure we've covered that off if I want to
be able to just do this at home if I'm
listening now and I'm in my car or I'm
walking the dog or whatever I'm on a
plane what is what is the sort of key
parts of doing the breathing technique
correctly yes do it safe yeah so never
outside where you can lose control okay
you know when you drive and you lose
control that's no good when you are in a
swimming pool you lose control h that's
no good H when you are at an Abus and
you lose control no good you know
wherever your motoric uh uh uh Power is
needed to be in control don't do it
there therefore we say
strictly this is a powerful medicinal
therapeutic
uh exercise through breathing specific
breathing uh patterns we take on if for
example we are sitting now yeah it's
safe to do it here yeah even if you
faint now then yeah you would maybe fall
here on the ground is a soft uh uh
carpet here there no problem okay
so relax it's a this is also these
moments when you okay relax I'm I'm now
turning myself into myself because I'm
going to breathe deeper I'm going to go
past my normal uh control mode normal
conditioning normal thinking so okay am
I here yes I'm
here okay here we go we have a belly we
have a chest that those uh muscles are
connected to the lungs so use your belly
and use your uh
chest to inhale
fully you can go through your mouth
through your nose as you feel how do I
know if I'm doing it correctly with my
belly yeah
just so two breaths in yeah and at a
certain moment becomes
one keep on going fully in as deep as
possible and Let It Go just Let It Go
and then fully in
again as deep as possible let it
go all in
and Let It
Go and all
in Let It Go the Mind goes with a breath
fully
in Let It
Go and all
Go we are blowing keep on going for in
blowing of the CO2 carbon
dioxide can become a little bit DIY but
that's okay your body is charging up
it's changing your blood chemistry is
changing you may your pH levels go up in
your blood we do 10 more fully
in just follow the breath
whatever feels different breathe into it
Let It
Go and all
in Let it go this morning at 5:00 I was
doing this because I Was preparing to be
freed in my biochemistry of any [__] and
this is cleansing the biochemistry
trauma anything anything that is deeply
in is being CLE yeah five
more Let It
Go fully
in Let It
Go all
in Let It Go all
in Let it
go last one hold
in let it go and stop after the
exhalation close your mouth no breathing
no need your pH levels are way up
there's no need for breathing what is
going to happen is what I was saying
mentioning
before after one minute and there is no
need for breathing because the breathing
trigger depends on co2 CO2 is blown off
you are biohacking your
body you're going deep you're going past
the condition
mind and body you're going deeper in the
tissue now you're entering into the
deepest part of your
brain it's going to shoot out adrenaline
epinephrine the adrenal axis is now in
activation now slowly but
surely five times more blood will flow
into your brain and your heart you feel
peaceful
you have it fully in control yet the
deepest of your mechanisms and the
deepest of your brain are at work right
now and because you are doing it you are
connecting with those
mechanisms that's the way we learn to
gain control over these mechanisms and
you're still without breathing even
normally you you you would die like yeah
breathing breathing you're
peaceful you're completely in control
over your parasympathetic nervous system
which is deep autonomic nervous system
level and you are in control right now
this is where trauma is starting to
release five 4 3 2 1 now you take a full
breath
in hold it and press it to your head
press it to your head press it to your
head
this is
subliminal cerebral spinal fluid to your
head it's flushing in and all brain 100%
neural Activity 3 2 1 let it
go
good if we go into a next round you will
be able to go say for two minutes
without breathing then 2 and 1/2 minutes
then 3
minutes after exhalation
it is it cannot be something else than a
regaining a control deeper than ever
before thought possible and this is what
we have shown this is where the bacteria
suddenly had no
chance the virus has no chance why is it
that the world doesn't know about this
why is it that the scientific world is
not examining this as a beneficial
therapeutical power to battle all the
diseases we got because aren't we built
with an immune system that
shoot Hal virus bacteria uh inflammation
it is but it is never at way because
this is deeper than our conditioned body
and mind and this is the way to get a
hold of that it feels so I feel very
different in every in every sense of the
word I feel when I came back into the
room it all felt very it almost felt a
little bit like I just woken up but it
also I was a little you know it was a
little bit of it was very peaceful
peaceful and I was very um when I came
back into the room I felt very focused
nice I felt like I this is the last
study I did with 540 people in Australia
it shows uh that this uh um this uh
method is compared to meditation and
mindfulness Works a whole lot better how
did you learn this where did you learn
this by intuition you remember the
mother who made me uh
uh become a missionary become a seeker
and then I found the cold water what
does the cold water do first time you go
into cold
water you learn to breathe deep and that
makes all the change at a certain moment
I became aware that if I was breathing
deeper slowly and deep slowly and deep I
was able to endure the cold much longer
that means that if we go into deeper
breathing we are able to activate deeper
mechanisms that are able to make us a
lot stronger and that translates to life
yeah translates to everyday life I want
to get on to the cold water which is the
sort of second pillar of the Wim Hof
method but the third pillar I find
really interesting as well which is the
power of the Mind exactly what do you
mean by this the power of the mind
you're telling me that I can do things
to my mind to make my mind stronger and
more resilient oh yes oh yes what do you
mean by the power of the Mind the first
of all we just recently did this new
study it's coming out now um it's into
submitting and they did it with 540
people so meditation and mindfulness is
about the mind isn't it to bring anxiety
down to bring stress down this method
works better than mindfulness and
meditation which is in the corporate
world but also in the wellness industry
uh overall and also therapeutically in
the health Mental Health Care uh yeah
systems uh being accept accepted and uh
implemented and used as a therap
therapeutical means so this works better
uh the stress resilience goes way up
stress experience goes way down and the
cognitive awareness goes also way up is
what you just said and uh this was only
one round imagine if you do four rounds
you will go so deep that's yeah
unprecedent enter deep where you will go
and things can come to the surface never
been stashed away you never knew of or
we're not aware of at all this is all
blocking our
awareness and now when it's getting out
of the way then suddenly our awareness
becomes bigger brighter nicer more flow
more receptive more sharper clearer and
all and uh that
that is part of a system that suddenly
is able to override our
conditioning so our conditioning is a
conditioning wherein deeper mechanisms
are not really at work but we are able
to function in this Society system Etc
but not necessarily we are connected
with the depth of our selves and when
trauma happens or emotion start to be
not nice we don't know what to do with
that now the power of the mind is very
simple through doing this you learn to
override to create a different
conditioned mind and body
relationship and suddenly opens up a new
terrain a new capacity in the brain to
connect with and that is
interoception interoception
interoception interception and and with
that we suddenly learn to
control uh and to command our bodies a
vessel of our emotions of our sensations
of or whatever we experience that's our
body but when it feels bad we don't know
what to do and now we found a way to go
past that conditioned State and we found
a new way in the brain and get a hold of
that which is there naturally to control
control whatever is going wrong to
re-regulate it to rebalance it to reset
it to make our bad feelings emotions uh
disease Etc make it go away in our
Command that is the power of the mind
which is a natural capacity of ours
which should be revealed past uh the
system way of thinking and be brought
into SE secondary school or or even when
kids are very young that they are able
to depict their own happiness strength
and health is part of the building up
the power of the Mind
becoming stepping into personal
responsibility and stepping away from
victimhood yes because victimhood is no
longer needed
responsibility is there where we have
the ability to respond and this is these
are the tools then suddenly we feel we
got the stair wheel in our hand how do
you train someone though to stop being a
victim in their own life in one in one
session how just do this breathing yeah
and then uh we go into the ice birth
yeah they suddenly feel
power sorry that I'm yelling you can
yell yeah it's power people feel the
being silent in that ice bath oh
overcoming all that stress and suddenly
feel that they are on top of it and they
are suddenly able to go past this
concept of this dangerous cold power
energy coming to No Control this anxiety
is suddenly they got a halt complete
halt over that and with that comes that
Paradigm that always thought of that to
be impossible to control Suddenly It's a
piece of cake that that is then turning
into a a a domino effect a Cascade of uh
uh feelings of hey if I can do that I
can do that I can do that I can do
that so you can build personal
responsibility by taking control of the
cold and not oh absolutely and in just
one day okay well guess what whim
upstairs I have two ice baths I've
always been bad with the cold always
it's a story I've told myself for my
entire life so seeing as you're here and
seeing as I just happened to have two
ice baths
upstairs could we go upstairs and get in
those ice baths and you can teach me how
to master the cold so the cold no longer
Masters
me follow me on this I'm I'm just a a
brother of another mother in this yeah
we are like family family people have
the capacity to transmit their energy M
it's logical it's it's nothing woa it's
real and you will feel it's real today
here in the ice just follow me there in
and very soon you take the reins over
you
yourself let's do it
okay okay so when we've got uh two ice
baths here is there a certain
temperature they need to be does it
matter no this this is the right temp
temperature very
cold
yeah so so so so talk me through what
we're going to do and how we're going to
prepare is there a way I I want to do
one minute horse St with you I've not
done this before so you need to coach me
through
yeah your voice I want to hear you yeah
why are we doing this because you're
going to go into the ice and then you
feel why okay because it's feeling got
to go into your feeling now okay so
command your body to feel
strong mhm yeah mhm we bring happiness
strength and health to the whole wide
world MH yes mhm okay command yourself
to be strong this is a
to see if you are able to commence your
body from the inside to be strong MH
right mhm so let's go in mhm
sorry stay with your breath we are
friends come on we show the world from
the inside is the power let the body do
what the body is capable of long out
breath long out
breath long out you're doing good look
at hey you didn't think this one like
this yet you're doing
good yeah it let your body do what the
body is capable of it takes about 20
seconds more then then your body is
adapting from the inside means that the
hormone system suddenly has found a way
to oppose the
impact and that makes your body strong
that makes your immune system on that
makes your emotions being within your
control the deepest part of the brain
now is within because you are doing it
is within your command and that is
reestablishing natural power of us this
is what we are going to bring to the
whole wide of world because we love the
people and we bring happiness strength
and health no it's power this is power
but silent
nice how simple it can be I'm not a
sorcerer or something or a magician life
is Magic yes let's get to life look at
he was afraid of the cold hey the cold
is not mine I'm got a warm body it's
just not mine look at them now you can't
buy
this you can obtain this happiness
health and strength you can obtain it
you just go to the cold and the cold
doesn't come to you did you have done it
yeah yeah I love it what what time of
the day do you do it in the in the
morning in the morning and how long
would you sit in here in the morning
sometimes I stay I had a birthday when I
became 60 I thought I'm going to show
the world that I'm [__] strong sorry
for the
French but I'm going to stay 60 Minutes
in the in the icy water and I had happy
times and 61 I did 61 minutes 62 I did
62 minutes 63 I had 63 and when I became
64 I thought that's boring no going to
do this
anymore yeah you your nature is on
inside and that's the whole message and
with that comes the a strengthened
immune system a strengthened
cardiovascular system cardiovascular
related issues is killer number one in
our
society through this it's
gone this the way to tackle it
connection with the depth of the brain
the deepest part of the brain and if you
are able to go to the deepest part where
else can you not
go so if I did this once a day you think
I'd be better equipped to deal with the
stress of work and the stress of Life
yeah of
course man and you don't need to go this
long
into an eyes bath two three minutes is
enough I we''ve been in six minutes it
it doesn't feel cold anymore though I
actually feel a bit warm funly enough my
legs feel like they're warm but I don't
know if that's just from my body
shutting down or something
yeah okay I think it now there time
enough come louder you did it come
on down
amazing thank you so much it was so
interesting the first um the first 20
seconds of that process are so
fascinating because I had to conf a lot
of things I had to confront a lot of
natural reactions that told me to stop
to get out to you know my body went into
like a phase of panic and it's funny
because as I reflect on that feeling of
like Panic it was like a wall and it was
a wall that I had to make a decision
about going through or going backwards
and I say this because I think in a lot
of Our Lives we're surrounded by these
walls and it's in many of our Lives
actually the walls kind of close in on
us and what I learned in the first sort
of 20 seconds of that process was that
that wall was something I created myself
it was a figment of my imagination and
as I sat there for what five six
minutes my body almost said to me it was
like sorry I was lying I was lying to
you something was lying because five six
minutes in I'm completely fine yeah but
in that first 20 seconds some Panic
signal went off and told me to retreat
and so I just find that so fascinating
it's like there's something about
breaking through a wall
mhm that you once really believed was
real that illuminates your mind to the
what other kind of self-limiting beliefs
you're currently constrained by in
everyday life you know I could I
couldn't say it better uh self-limiting
uh belief uh beliefs coming in at a
certain moment become blockages become
patterns become condition and that
conditioning uh withholds us from going
through uh things when they come to our
lives because they are too stressful
they are uh uh mirroring that what we uh
through our self- believing uh limiting
uh way of thinking have created then we
see it outside and we don't go in it we
don't go through it anymore and thus we
don't find uh uh these things in our
lives anymore to uh
as life's lessons it's no longer there
and and there we limit ourselves and
become narrowed so what we have found
now through these uh practices that we
are able to command our bodies so much
better to go through the self-limiting
self H disc conditioning because in most
of the time it is uh that we get
schooled that we have to follow rules
ethics morals Etc at a certain moment we
got a belief system that is not
necessarily who we are in the depth and
this is where this Society is
suffering uh big time of having no
connection with this invisible purpose
of ours which is there but we it's
behind the wall and simply through doing
this you see you have the power to go
through these walls you have the power
to uh become exactly who you are and
what you are that is what the C is
showing it doesn't show what what you
think it shows you who you are and what
you are and from there you will see that
the walls in your life of whatever
invisibly what stalking you will
disappear is this in part why it seems
like a lot of people in society right
now are choosing discomfort because you
know we've got kind of gone one way as a
society we've gone to comfort and then
you've got this counter movement of
people that are now doing Ma ultra
marathon runs and they're cold plunging
and they're they're doing things to put
themselves in intentional discomfort it
seems like it's for me it's I've
observed it like a counter movement yes
and it is and and it is but H the the
thing is H now that we are showing in
signs with the professor Vibe of divar
mostly in Auto music uh that we found a
key and the key is the innate capacity
of ours to command our bodies much
better in our emotions because in the
end it's not about going into the
extremes it's about handling our emotion
and to feel that we are on top of it no
matter what and that being able to pass
on to our
children the way
reactionary it
all we go into these extremes and all
that is a that is a reaction of our uh
massive Paradigm encountering too much
comfort now hey let's go to that but
that's reactionary human is it that we
actually uh are here to uh learn to have
a uh Hal absolute Hal over our emotion
which is directly connected to our
purpose because from the beginning or uh
it the problem the conflict is the
conflict with our soul and our soul is
about when we realize our soul and the
unlimited power of the of the Mind
serving us to find realization of that
soul and that is for every person unique
what are the other things that are like
Staples of your daily routine eat once a
day you eat once a day yeah okay so you
you wake so can you run me through a a
perfect whm Hof day yeah in the morning
uh I wake up uh next to my wife and my
child the my youngest is uh is six and
actually there's a new one coming I'm 65
but hey man I'm alive I'm sorry and I
got a yeah I found a younger woman eight
and a half years ago we are very happy
together and she says don't talk about
it
and I'm sorry but I'm very happy my
oldest son is 42 and my youngest is
going to be zero very soon so that's
life I wake up and I I look at my
beloveds next to me still sleeping and
wow like Angels what time did you wake
up 5:00 5:00 halfast 5 uh halfast 4
around there why so early that that is
me now sometimes I just sleep until 9:00
okay it's
I'm not really bound okay but uh uh time
is serving me I'm not serving time in
the morning I do my exercising a ritual
and I like my coffee in the morning I
start no sugar just coffee a little bit
milk and
nice what are those exercising
routines you saw me doing the
split I want to do a world record by the
way in three third of August in Germany
with 4,000 people doing this and do you
use weights or anything yeah a yeah use
weights before not okay I I did push-ups
it's like weight yeah your own weight so
you can do that or weights and uh uh I
got a bar where normally you got put the
weight on MH you do this it's about 10K
yeah I make it Circle mhm like a stick
if you do that 500 times
it's you really go deep you go to your
pain I if I do exercises I I do it to
the threshold of
pain and then I overcome the
pain then it's then it's okay that is
body
awareness that body awareness I want to
know feel feel
that I live not know feel that I I'm
alive when's that first meal of the day
uh later later in the day so no
breakfast no no no no breakfast no lunch
why no lunch because I I feel stuffed
up I feel too much this is also part of
conditioning I could also enjoy a very
nice
breakfast very nice breakfast is very
nice you know with the sea and sitting
there relax wow some eggs some this some
that nice coffee hello how are you the
newspaper or look at the phone it's
enjoying life I I could do that but I I
really enjoy the feeling that I'm
fasting
inside a little that that I'm going
against like the cold if you go to the
cold then the cold doesn't come to you
yeah when when the appetite comes I just
DeLay So you fast for you're doing some
sort of intermittent fasting there as
they call it you're you're going yeah
but I I I did this since I was a young
kid again intuition yeah intuition it's
just how you felt yes because the
external narrative is you got to have
three meals a day maybe four meals a day
you've got to have breakfast you know
lunch dinner no no no yeah that's just
just made up it's made
up uh you should feel like any any
animal in the world is not eating when
it doesn't need to eat because it
doesn't think it only eats when it feels
and when it feels that it needs to eat
his eyes become bigger becoming more
alert adrenaline starts to run they
become sharper they then all the systems
are at work that is the way it it
automatically exercises its all of body
that's how I I live my life and I've
always thought I was a bit strange but
we're now at 1 p.m. I haven't eaten
anything today sometimes I get a little
bit later into the day I mean yesterday
this week it's been 5 6 p.m. I think
yesterday was 700 p.m. my first meal and
I I I'm okay I I don't know what the you
know but I yeah you enjoy life you enjoy
the energies I focus better I have
better conversations yeah yeah all that
if you fast a little
bit long and then you become sharper and
it's a nice feeling once upon a time if
you had a business idea it was
exceptionally difficult to get going but
now in the age of Shopify it is
exceptionally easy as many of you will
know Shopify are a sponsor of this
podcast if you don't know Shopify it's
an exceptionally simple web platform for
anybody that's got an idea that wants to
transact on a global scale so things
like these conversation cards which we
sell we've sold using Shopify and it
only took us a couple of clicks to get
going so why did we choose Shopify for a
number of reasons but I think one of the
big ones which goes unappreciated is
their checkout system converts 36%
better compared to other platforms and
here's what I'm going to do to remove
the cost for you if you go to
shopify.com Bartlet you'll be able to
try Shopify for
$1 a month I've seen Shopify completely
change people's lives and for many of
you I think it could change yours
when you look at our society and the
these sort of stories we've told
ourselves about how we're supposed to
live yeah what are the other s is there
any anything else that's really
fundamental that you think people should
question you've talked to me about the
breath you've talked to me about
discomfort breathing is one of them
you've talked to me there about fasting
as well is there anything else that you
know whether it's relationships or our
work or our purpose that is just a lie
in your opinion oh yes our energy is
being drained it's like thieving and uh
uh uh uh we should have all the energy
to bring happiness strength and health
to our kids and to feel bright bright
and shiny in life but we don't because
we have to do this do that take on
stress and think about this think about
that who did this whatever did this is
is a massive Paradigm going on
taking our en energetic bodies and with
that our our emotions and with that our
life force and and there it is the real
philosophy serves that Paradigm where
one becomes happy strong and healthy and
is able to pass it on you're only good
if you are able to be happy strong
healthy inside and then pass it radiate
that to
others there you go past your ego and
that we we we don't live that we survive
in this Society we live in a competitive
world we have all kinds of rules in this
and that but do we really feel bright
and and the top the best of ourselves
are we able to give love in full
conviction that it is good and to
others are we there I don't think so and
that is what we are going to bring
when you say you need to know live in
your purpose how do I know what my
purpose is do I have to go find it
somewhere do I you know what just be
happy strong and healthy rest is
[__] just be happy strong and
healthy and purpose will follow yes that
is the purpose the characteristics of
purpose is not to be in conflict with
your soul happy strong and heal
healthy then you become happy strong and
healthy you don't need to work for that
so much a couple of exercises more than
enough if I do my exercise and I'm not a
whole day working out it's it's 10
minutes 15 minutes but I'm
ready this morning because later I have
a keynote speech and I got to go to the
record label I got to meet somebody who
is managing by government mid School of
the England I got to meet them and and
something else uh I I thought okay today
I got to be ready so what I'm doing I
breathe like a
[__] in there morning in
bed and cleanse myself so deeply that
I'm ready to take on anything that is
coming and in that way I will absolutely
serve and especially being with you
which is a pleasure a great pleasure we
are serving purpose right over here
unmistakably straight wh we have a
closing tradition on this podcast where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next guest and my last guest left a
question for you that is inside the
Diary of a CEO and the question that was
left for you is
what is one thing you can
do next week to prove to your friends or
family that they matter to you more than
your
work oh oh work like work 9 to5 is work
because my work is my life my work is my
mission and in the end it is not work I
I feel all the to do that
so next week more than my work to keep
on what I'm doing right here right now
do you believe in like work life balance
you know people say work life balance
you've got to yeah my wife is talking
about that but I don't I don't feel that
I feel I'm busy with my mission and with
my daily life at the same time there is
no work I have no night to five I think
you have no night to5 do you know we
depict our own realities I think our
power is stronger than they made us
think it is by which we have a power
which is stronger than uh what is
man-made coming to us we are stronger
and that's why we go and uh we don't
work you know yeah we work the game we
work the society we work at all but hey
it's not like 9 to5 and we got to obey
and this and that we don't do that why
you got a maybe
unexplainable U genetical uh Power in
you that may made you into who you are
what and what you are right now and you
got a great responsibility but also that
great ability to respond and that is
more than 9 to5 that person this is my
last question today that person who is
in that N9 to5 and they are struggling
and they are trapped and they have been
conditioned by school University their
parents desires who were also you know
their parents were also conditioned in
that
way what would what would you say to
those people as a closing message to
those people oh yeah guys just do what
Stephen just
showed you thought you were not able to
I cannot do what Iceman is doing or what
Stephen has got or what he is doing and
I cannot man you can do that too the
most precious of all the greatest wealth
you can Embrace is your happiness your
strength and your health and you can get
it every day
anybody that's you that's
you it's love it's
powerful whim thank you thank you so
much for your time you've been a a
legend and an icon and inspiration to me
to my partner Melanie um and to so many
people I mean all these people written
on the front of the book I actually
think every single one of these people
I've sat down here with from Joe to Ben
to be to Russell all of them and uh Russ
oh Fern I've sat with her as well and
gabble and James Nester ah all seven
people on your book I I've gotten to
know and they've many of them have
mentioned the profound impact that your
work has had and I was before we sat
down today that I was going through so
many videos of people who describe how
changed their life in a really really
profound way so on behalf of all you did
you do that's your work he you do the
study you study people coming because
next week or tomorrow I don't know when
a a new people come in and you will
study again M yeah that's amazing thank
you for all that you're doing because
you're Pro you're providing a counter
narrative and a counter solution in a
world where it feels like there's only
one and that current solution is failing
so many so thank you for that whim we
have to change the narrative and we will
because we want to make the people happy
strong and healthy and independent of
all what is going on we got to reset it
all here we are here we are thank
you I'm going to let you in on a little
secret what is in the Diary of a COO Cup
this cup that sits in front of me when I
interview these people sometimes for 3
hours and sometimes three people a day
and the answer is this perfect t I
invested in the company on Dragon's Den
and since then they've gone from an idea
to the fastest growing energy drink in
the UK it is a mat energy drink and it
is absolutely delicious but that's not
why I choose to drink it on this podcast
the reason I choose to drink it is
because it gives me what I call all day
energy I don't get the same crashes that
I used to get with other energy drinks
if you're in the middle of a
conversation or you're in the middle of
a talk on stage or in the boardroom the
last thing you want to do is have a
crash you don't want Jitters and you
need
focus and that is why they now sponsor
this podcast not only is it delicious
but it gives me a significant
competitive Advantage if you haven't
tried it go down to a Tesco go to a
waitrose or go online and use the code
diary 10 at checkout and you'll get 10%
off and when you do try it let me know
how you get on
[Music]
this